I had compulsory chapel every Sunday morning.
Everyone had to go. And it's all the students, even
the seniors?
Did you ever have any visiting speakers? Yes,
there were all visiting speakers. Of course, I
don't remember any of them. Where would they
speak, in Guyon Hall? In Guyon. They had a regular
church, sort of a church service. They had a song
service and preaching. Okay, let me clarify. You
had to, I believe they kind of rotated among the
local, probably Bryan ministers for that
services. Well, they'd bring others in from
different places. I don't know where they got them
all, but there's always one there. What I was
wondering is, did they ever have a, say, a foreign
traveler or some dignitary to come and speak to the
students? No, it was always a religious nature on
Sunday morning. They had these other things
you're talking about during the week. That's what
I was meaning. During the week they'd have them in
there. They were not compulsory. You could go if
you liked. Did the cadet officers have any
privileges that were not available to the other
cadets?
Well, just regular senior privileges. Of course,
not having been a senior officer, I mean, I was in
the civilian corps then. I don't know about that,
except as a freshman it always looked to me like
they had the gravy.
Did you have any favorite instructors
Well,
I liked Smith. I've forgotten his name. He taught
calculus. Probably been in the Robert F. Cuball
Ritchie. He was head of the physics,
no, CE department. And Bolton was head of the
electrical department.
General Love was one of the civil engineering
professors. He usually had charge of the summer
practice, CE practice. You called him General.
Was he a retired military man? I don't know where he
got that name. He kept a box of chalk on his desk, and
if he ever saw you nodding or looking out the
window, he'd let you have a piece of chalk right in
your face. Pretty good aim, huh? Yeah.
One of the things that I think sets Texas A&M apart
from other schools is the number of traditions
that are carried on from year to year by the
students. And today we have the big bonfire that's
in some controversy, the tradition of silver
taps, the annual muster on April 21st. Did you have
any of these when you were there as a student?
That's one thing that made me love A&M was all of
those things. It meant so much to all of us. It's
just like one big family, really. Did you build a
bonfire all four of the years you were there? And
everybody worked on it? Yeah. And what about a
muster? Did you have a special ceremony of some
sort on the 21st of April? I don't remember any on
the campus. We've had musters since we got out, of
course.
We always had to go to Yale practice. You had to
attend Yale practice. That was required
attendance. Yeah.
Were there any girls in any of the classes while you
were there? There were one or two girls who were
daughters of some of the professors, but they were
not on a full-time basis. They were just taking the
course now and then. And there were a few women,
girls, that were secretaries in the
administration building, but there were very
few. Did any of them take any courses? I don't
remember of any. They more than likely were, what,
residents in Bryant? Yeah. They would ride the
trolley back and forth to campus. Did that trolley
have a pretty convenient schedule that you could
get in and out without any? Yeah. undue
complications. You had a little trouble getting
on sometimes. You'd probably have to hang on
outside. A lot more people wanting to go than it was
room,
huh? Mm-hmm. Okay.
In checking over the
longhorn from your senior year, There was an
indication that you were a casual, and that meant
that you were not in the military. Did they ever use
the term non-reg? No, not in the casuals. We were
called casuals. And you didn't have to wear any
kind of uniform at that point? No, we were entirely
out of the military. It had nothing to do with it at
all. point later on where somebody told me
yesterday that even though he was not in the
military his senior year, he had to wear a uniform.
It had an NM on his collar that said non-military.
No. No, that wasn't true. He just wore regular
civilian clothes all the time. Do you have any
recollection as to how they came up with the term
casual? No, I don't know where that Other than it
was casual clothes that you wore, perhaps. I
always took it to mean that you were a casualty. I
see. That's really the way it started. It was for
boys that were unable physically to participate
in the military, had some injury or something
happened to them. That's always what I thought it
was. That might not be right.
Also, you remember the Gold Brickers Club. Yeah.
What was that? Well, I didn't belong to that. I
don't know. In fact, I didn't belong to any club
except the Panhandle Club and the
C.E. Club. Were you aware of the existence of the
Gold Brickers Club? Oh, yeah. What was it? Well, I
don't remember. I don't know. I didn't know
anything about it. I had my own ideas. Well, today a
Gold Bricker is somebody who's always trying to
get out and do some work. Well, of course, that's
what the idea was. I mean, that's what it conveyed
to me.
Okay. When you graduated then in the spring of 22,
did you have a job lined up the time you graduated?
What was that? It was assistant city engineer in
Breckenridge, Texas. Is that suburb kind of San
Antonio? No, Breckenridge in Stevens County.
Stevens County. Close to Abilene. I was thinking
of Breckenridge Park in San Antonio. No, in
addition to my regular CE course, I took a course in
highway engineering. And I got the job with a firm,
Hawley and Sands, who operated in Fort Worth. And
they had a resident man in Breckenridge. And they
were getting ready to do the first paving that went
into Breckenridge, Texas. And when he saw on my
record that I had done some special work in paving,
asphalt paving, he needed an asphalt man. And
that's how come me to get the job. I designed the
first asphalt paving that went into
Breckenridge. However, we paved the main street
with brick and put in the first sewer system. Was
that, how was the brick laid? Was it herringbone or
just? No, it was, I don't know what you call it. It
wasn't herringbone. We put out about an
eight-inch concrete base and put about couple of
inches of sand on it, laid the brick on that, and it
was all done by hand. Not much other way to lay brick
is.
Did you have reinforcing steel in the concrete
base?
Yeah. Were you involved in the design of that part
of the street too? Well, I did a lot of the drafting
on it. I didn't do any of the design on that, no. But
then you say you were involved in the design of the
sewer system? The sewer system and the asphalt.
How long did you stay in Breckenridge then? I
believe I was there a little over a year, and then I
went to work for Pittsburgh Testing Laboratories
in San Antonio. At that time they had a contract to
test all the pavement that went down in San
Antonio, about four or five different paving
companies operating there. And I had a laboratory
and it was my job to take samples, daily samples of
their work. This was to make sure that they were
using the— Check it to see if it was within
specifications. Specified materials for the
pavement. Check the amount of asphalt that was in
it, percentage of asphalt.
character asphalt, and also the gravel and metal
base that went into it. And how long did you stay at
that then? Oh, a couple of years, I guess.
And then I had a chance to go to Shackleford County,
but Albany, Texas is a County, Cedar-Sapford
County, as an assistant county engineer.
At that time, they were doing a lot of highway work.
And I was assistant to the county engineer there.
We built some roads north of Bracken Ridge and east
toward Caddo. This would be asphalt roads.
Asphalt roads. Within the county. Uh-huh. They
were just county roads. And we were working for the
county commissioner.
But we found out that the county judge and one of the
commissioners and the contractor had a thing
going.
And we were on just a month-to-month basis. We
didn't have a contract to do the engineering, just
working for them by the month. The judge called us
in and told us he wanted us to favor the contractor
in certain aspects. In fact, he wanted us to take an
inspector off the concrete bridge. Said he
thought we could tell whether it was concrete or
not when it took the forms off. And several things
that he instructed us to do, and we told him we
couldn't do that. And he said, well, You boys stick
with us, and we'll have you making $1,000 a month
right along. As you come back in a few days, and he
asked us then at the end of the three days, and we
told him we were still of the same opinion. He said,
well, get your stuff and get out of the courthouse.
So that ended that. I had just bought a lot and built
a home, furnished it, settled down. This was in
Albany. No, in Breckenridge. In Breckenridge,
yeah. And then I went to work the next week, I guess
it was, for Texas Carbon Industries. They had a
carbon plant in Breckenridge making carbon
black, which at that time was pretty much in demand
for automobile tires, Victrola records, and
printer's ink, and such as that.
And I went from there. over to Albany
working for an oil company in petroleum
engineering construction. Built some gasoline
plants, repressor plants, recycling plants.
What company was this? It was an independent
company, Rosier and Pendleton. They've since
gone out of existence. Just a couple of fellows
that came out of the army and Struck it lucky and got
a lease over there and built up quite a thing. It was
quite an organization for about twenty-five
years. Did they sell out to somebody else? No, we
finally exhausted the supply. It was sand
production, sand lenses, and it's kind of like
this Ogallala water formation here. It just had so
much in it and we got it all out and that was it. And
then we moved to Lubbock from there. My wife had
some farms up in this area, Castro and Bailey and
Hockley County. When was that that you moved to
Lubbock? That was 1949. And that's what I've been
doing since then, looking after the farms.
What's your principal crop then? Or crops, I
guess. Well, I guess maize, probably, and corn
now. We've raised lots of corn the last few years.
But we raised maize and wheat, sugar beets,
cotton, corn, and some soybeans. Has this been a
gradual change, going into different
commodities?
Well, no, not especially. Of course, when we first
started out, there wasn't much irrigation.
Irrigation was just getting going. We drilled a
bunch of wells and gradually got into different
phases.
Of course, within the last ten years, sugar beets
have been in. We didn't have any sugar beets early,
because they built that plant at Hereford.
But the main thing this year, nearly everything's
in corn and maize. We had some wheat and a little
cotton, not much cotton.
Did the sugar beet plant come in and did somebody
decide it was a good area to grow sugar beets and
encourage the production and build the plant, or
did the plant come first? Some outfit in Denver,
Holly, Holly Sugar Corporation, They put a plant
in at Hereford. Of course, they made us help pay for
it. They took out a dollar or two dollars a ton out of
every ton of beets that went in there to help pay for
the plant.
But our main crop the last two years has been maize
and corn.
Did you raise any cattle along with the No. We've
had a few cattle along, but never over 40 head, I
guess. Some of the farms had grass on them, and of
course we'd graze the wheat and things like that.
After you've combined the wheat, you graze the...
Well, we graze it after it's planted, planted
about middle of October, and you can turn on it
about, oh, sometime before Christmas and leave
them on there until March.
And of course, when the maize is harvested, turn
them on the maize stalks. Well, in other words, you
raised the wheat as a winter grazing crop rather
than as a grain. No, it was raised principally for
harvest.
But the grazing was just incidental. But so the
grazing was prior to the harvest or after? Oh,
yeah, before the harvest. Before the harvest.
Yeah. Yeah, before it heads. When it starts to
head, you have to take off of it before the boot
starts. The boot is what the head grows in. You can
take it off, take off the grazing before that. It
was more or less incidental.
Um. Would you say then that irrigation has been one
of the big developments in the last 25, 30 years in
the farming of this area? Yeah. Of course, it
started way back in the, well, I think the first
well drilled up here in Plainview around 1911. But
there wasn't very much irrigation done before
1935.
Most of the early irrigation was what, with
windmills? No, it was all- Gasoline pumps? With
irrigation pumps. The first irrigation out at
Portales, when we lived out there, there was some
irrigation. That was back in 1907 and eight, nine.
But at that time, they had no equipment to lift the
water. They'd dig a pit. down twenty-five feet
deep and about ten feet square and it set an
ordinary centrifugal pump down there because it
wouldn't pick the water up and put the engine up on
top and belt driven down through there and that
centrifugal pump would throw the water out of that
hole but of course then later sometime
in the twenties some man designed a the modern
irrigation pumps.
That's when irrigation really got started.
Of course, even then they didn't have gear heads.
They drove their pumps by a belt, a long flat belt
hooked onto an engine sitting out ten or fifteen
feet away. But now the engines are all direct
connected to a gear head, which is not the same as a
differential on a car, but it has a big gear and a
little gear on the engine, kind of like a car
differential. And the motor is direct connected
to it.
When you came out to Lubbock to sort of take over the
farms, did you sever all connections with Rosser
and Pendleton? Yes. I did some work here for
Coleman Hazy and some engineering over at Sudan.
Put in the water system over there and a sewer
system in Sudan in 19—well, that was before That
was back in the 30s, so I was working then for the
city of Sudan. But after I came here, I worked for
Coleman Hazy. We did some work at Post and Summit,
Littlefield, and Bevel Land, Graham, paving and
sewer work, things like that. But I was just on a
salary with Coleman Hazy, Hazy and Green.
Are you doing any kind of engineering at the
moment? Oh, no. No, I haven't done any of that in 10
years.
Well, I mean, there have been a lot of developments
along the line there. Oh, yeah. That you'd have to
keep up with. Quite different now. Yeah, I'd have
to go to school again to go back in the oil field.
They've learned things that we didn't know about.
What about sewer systems and paving? Well, it
hasn't changed a whole lot, basically.
Well, I was talking with a highwayman yesterday,
and he said, as far as he was concerned, the
principal development in highways has been the
computerization of design work. Yeah. I imagine
so, of course. I know nothing about that. I don't
have any conception of what a computer is. You said
that the products which they use today is not
drastically different from what they were using
forty years ago to build roads. That's right.
Although they build them wider and longer. Of
course, back in the early twenties in the
summertime while I was going to A&M, I worked for
the highway department on highways up around
Amarillo. and all the material then was hauled in
by teams, mule teams, horse teams,
and everything was done by hand except the hauling
of the gravel. They used Fresnos with three mules
hitched to a Fresno to do the dirt work where they do
it now with all the machines.
Basically, it was the same then as now. They put on a
10 or 12 inch base, top it off with some asphalt
mixture of some kind. That was it. Either that or
concrete. They'd been doing that for a long time.
Yeah, they'd been doing concrete a long time.
There wasn't too much of it done, though, up until
the late 20s.
Have you been involved in any kind of social or
fraternal activities or any political
activities? No. No, I haven't been in politics at
all.
Oh, we belong to little groups here, Sunday
schools and church groups and occasional bridge
group. Nothing of any consequence.
And I haven't been going to A&M Club. I don't know
that I've ever been to it here. I used to go in
Houston, San Antonio. And
I belonged to the Agriculture Club here for a
while, but I haven't been active in that for 10 or 15
years. I never was much of a joiner. Well, you have
to have some of that joining characteristic to
belong and continue activities. Most of our
activities have been in connection with the
church and Sunday school.
Well, not everybody can be participating
in everything.